I'm some hero a little bit yeah it's the
unsung hero of bad galaxies has it got a
corner
it doesn't just NGC four five seven nine
boring isn't it it doesn't even have a
cool name we should name it yeah we name
it we call it the unknown galaxy yeah
the unknown galaxy
today we are visiting m58 which I'm
super excited about because it's a bard
galaxy and I love bad galaxies so much
beautiful they're just gorgeous you look
gorgeous
better than spirals yeah well your bar
galaxies usually has a spiral as well so
it's like two for one you like the bar
and the spiral so it's extra beautiful
so it was discovered in 1777 by Messier
and at that time it was the most distant
astronomical object no they didn't know
that it was the most distant object
known until the 1920s when Hubble came
along and inside measuring redshifts and
actually found out that it was no system
so it was one of those unknown knowns so
you get a lot of known unknowns things
that we know that we don't know but you
don't get a lot of unknown knowns things
that we don't know but we still know of
if there's no no no no no no no none
owns and unknown owns so it was exactly
for a does it held that but nobody knew
about it why don't we call it the
unknown galaxies yeah the unknown
galaxies but the really cool thing about
the unknown galaxies totally sinking
really now it's gonna be cold yeah yeah
it has something really rare in its
center it has what's called a nuclear
ring people might be familiar with rings
anyway so there's ring galaxies stuff
like hogs object for example it has a
beautiful you know hundreds of thousands
biters across stuff will be ring but
here I'm talking about right in the
central regions instead of hundreds of
thousands of light years I'm talking
like a hundred light years across
nuclear ring come on a tower did a big
atlas of all of these objects that have
nuclear rings this is a generic sort of
Sky Survey image of the galaxy just
black and white sort of photon counts
and then on the right where they've done
is they've zoomed in and this is a you
image so they can really care right into
the center and see what's going on and
you can see this beautiful ring of
star-forming things right in the very
center of the galaxy if you compare the
scale so this is 20 kiloparsecs that's
20,000 parsecs you know sort of across
is that galaxy and they've zoomed in to
only a hundred parsecs so this is this
tiny right in the center of the galaxy
itself so they think they form when you
get gas funnel to the center of the
galaxy
so that could either be by a bar or by
the spiral arms something in the galaxy
that's literally just funneling gas
right into the middle and as it does so
it loses angular momentum and what
happens is it gets trapped in this sort
of resonance right in the center of the
galaxy and so we get a lot of star
formation being triggered there because
there's a lot of gas there so you get
this nice stuff while we ring right in
the center the central regions of the
galaxy is so dense and compact and so
bright usually there's so many stars in
there that you just can't pick out the
nuclear ring this blue color means
there's lots of stuff formation
happening and the red color means that
actually there's not a lot of star
formation happening but if there's a lot
of star formation happening in that ring
then it's really easy to pick out in the
UV where lots of young hot stars give
out a lot of UV radiation so that's how
they've managed to find this one so
that's the big question are they
actually rare or is it actually that we
just can't find them very easily you can
get them in all shapes of galaxies
various different sizes it doesn't
correlate with how long the bar is wide
the bar is and in fact only about 20% of
the galaxies that have the nuclear ring
have bars as well so there's no
correlation there really at all really
is a ring of stars yeah New Starts so as
you funneled that gas in you've provided
fuel basically in an area where there
wasn't much fuel before because it's
been used up already and so when it gets
trapped in that resonance you end up
with this like area where it's just
perfect
first affirmation to occur and you end
up with this beautiful clear ring of
star forming this guy is the one what
you were just looking at this is our
unknown galaxy this is m58 and then you
can see loads of other different
examples that they found as well I mean
as someone who loves beautiful
astronomical pictures it's great to look
at it's not what classic beauty this is
beauty for a galaxy like that oh yeah
yeah this is like this is mess
that means physics is happening which is
the most exciting mess right so you have
stuff like like this ring here is you
can see the big clumps of star formation
so maybe if that does have a bar maybe
like it was funneling in a lot here and
a lot too here you have stuff like this
where it's like they've argued that
there probably is a ring here but
actually this kind of looks like mini
spiral structure you have stuff like
this where it's inclined and you've got
the ring as well and you can see that
there's really nothing going on in the
center there's like a dearth of star
formation there which is really cool so
there's just so many different types
even though they're all the same object
class you know they're all different I
think I've thought of a new name for m58
instead of but unknown galaxies we could
call it the ring bearer
you like this the happiest I've ever
been literally you could not have said
anything that made me happier than the
ring bearer galaxy that's a cool name
that is a really cool name that's better
than unknown even yeah okay the ring
bearer mr. Frodo if you'd like to see
even more videos about Messier objects
well you've come to the right place
check them out on the channel I'll also
include a link to more videos with Becky
if you'd like to check out something
different why not check out objectivity
that's another channel I do dedicated to
science treasures like we'll have a look
at this this is Isaac Newton's death
mask a cast of his face when he died
it's an amazing thing to see we've also
got these treasure chests one of my
favorite things this venus or re over a
hundred and fifty different objects
featured on the channel already
that's objectivity here on youtube i'll
include a link on the screen and in the
video description that's it that's all
for now you can go about your business